"xargs" is used to execute a command, passing constructed argument list(s). The arguments are typically a long list of filenames (generated by ls or find etc) that are passed to xargs via a pipe.

Some features:

- xargs can execute the command supplying some initial arguments directly, and reading the remaining arguments from standard input (or piped input).
- xargs passes arguments to command in several bundles, this allows command to process more arguments than it could normally handle at once.
- Arguments in the standard input must be separated by unquoted blank characters, or unescaped blank characters or newline characters.
- Characters can be quoted by enclosing them in "double-quotes" (non-double-quote and non-newline chars only).
- Characters can be quoted by enclosing them in 'apostrophes' (non-apostrophe and non-newline chars only).
- Any unquoted character can be escaped by preceding it with a backslash.


**Example**

**1) Find all the .mp3 files in the music folder and pass to the ls command, -print0 is required if any filenames contain whitespace.:**

	   find ./music -name "*.mp3" -print0 | xargs -0 ls


Find all files in the work folder, pass to grep and search for profit:

	   find ./work -print | xargs grep "profit"


**2) Xargs with grep:**

When you use "xargs" in conjusction with find and grep , the grep will look for the specifig word in  each file in the from the stanadard input.
  
  	find . -name "*.sh" | xargs grep "ksh"

In the above exanmple first find all .sh  files from current directory or below and than on each .sh file look for word "ksh".

**3) Covert muti line output into single line**

best example of xargs is  converting output of one command into one line. For example you can run any command and then combine xargs to convert output into single line. here is an example xargs in unix which does that.
    
    um@server#ls -1 *.sh
    linux_sysinfo.sh
    aix_sysinfo.sh
    audit_script.sh
    chperm_messages.sh

    um@system#ls -1 *.sh | xargs
    linux_sysinfo.sh aix_sysinfo.sh audit_script.sh chperm_messages.sh

**4) To Delete temporary files using xargs & find:**

Another common example of xargs command in unix is removing temporary files from system.
    
    find /tmp -name "*.tmp" | xargs rm

This will remove all .tmp file from /tmp or below directory. xargs in unix is very fast as compared to deleting single file at a time which can also be done by using find command alone

**5)  xargs -0 to handle space in file name**

Above example of xargs command in unix will not work as expected if any of file name contains space or new line on it. To avoid this problem we use find -print0 to produce null separated file name and xargs-0 to handle null separated items. Here is an example of xargs command in unix which can handle file name with spaces and newline:
	
    find /tmp -name "*.tmp" -print0 | xargs -0 rm

**6) Counting number of lines/words/characters in each file using xargs & find:******

"find"in conjuction with "xargs" and "wc"  we can count number of lines/words/characters in each file under a perticaular directory.

    um@server#ls -1 *.sh | xargs wc -l 
    112 linux_sysinfo.sh
    85  aix_sysinfo.sh
    35  audit_script.sh
    18  chperm_messages.sh
    250 total

Note: you can use '-c' & '-w' with wc to obtain number of characters and words repectively.

**7) xargs and cut command in Unix:**

 Though most of xargs examples in unix will be along with find and grep command but xargs is not just limited to this two it can also be used with any command which generated long list of input for example we can use xargs with cut command in unix. In below example of unix xargs we will xargs example with cut command. for using cut command let's first create a .csv file with some data e.g.

    um@server# cat fruits.txt
    Orange,Greenorange
    Mango,Redmango
    Banana,Pinkbanana

Now we will display name of actual fruit from first column using xargs command in one line:

    um@server:/etc cut -d, -f1 smartphones.csv | sort | xargs
    Orange Mango Banana

**8)To insert file names into the middle of command lines, type:**

    um@server#ls | xargs  -t  -I  {} mv {} {}.old

This command sequence renames all files in the current directory by adding .old to the end of each name. The -I flag tells the xargs command to insert each line of the ls directory listing where {} (braces) appear. If the current directory contains the files chap1, chap2, and chap3, this constructs the following commands:

    mv chap1 chap1.old
    mv chap2 chap2.old
    mv chap3 chap3.old
    
